#Car Fuel Management Application
 This act as Description of Application
Get full insight on the the Document

1. PURPOSE OF THE APPLICATION

The purpose of the application is to manage business transactions involving 
purchase of fuel at a reduced rate. The application must trace the historical 
purchases of each customer and provides a discount based on the individual 
profile of each customer.

2. THE BUSINESS PROCESS

1.1 A user registers their profile in an app 
1.2 The registration process will require the following information: personal details 
which are: Name and Surname, ID number, Home address and car registration 
number. The ID number and the car registration number will go through
validations as follows:
 1.2.1 ID number – will be validated with home affairs (custom built home 
affairs)to ensure that the user is a real South African that can be traced
 1.2.2 Car registration – car registration number will be validated with the 
traffic department to ensure that the car is roadworthy, and it will also 
be validated with SAPS (custom built SAPS) to ensure that the car is 
not a stolen car – Use Java Files I/O strategy for reading into a file
 1.2.3 The registration numbers must comply, using Java exception or similar 
tecnology with the registration numbers of the 9 South African 
provinces as shown in the example below
 1.2.4 The system must capture the picture of the with its registration from 
the front of the car or its back
1.3 Register their cars into the app, the registration process will follow the steps 
below:
 1.3.1 A user clicks a drop-down list containing a list of cars, the list of cars 
and their associated fuel tanks may be obtained from the Automobile 
Association of South Africa and will be periodically updated
 1.3.2 They select their model, and the system generates the fuel capacity of 
their car along with a full tank fuel price for the model
 1.3.3 The system generates the quotation for the fuel price purchase
based on the current fuel prices, the fuel prices will be obtained 
from PetroleumSA and will be updated in consistent with the 
regular price hikes or reduction
 1.3.4 Thereafter, the user accepts or declines the offer. If the user declines 
the offer, the process ends
 1.3.5 If the customer accepts the offer, the user chooses a repayment date 
which is within 30 days of the service
 1.3.6 The user must be allowed to choose the repayment date which is 
within 30 days
 1.3.7 The payment process will be done through a debit order or card 
purchase, depending on the choice of the user

3. FUEL BENEFITS FOR CONSISTENT CUSTOMERS

1.4 A customer can purchase fuel at any time they wish to purchase.
1.5 A customer can only purchase fuel once per month
1.6 A customer purchasing the service for the 1st time will be charged the fulltank 
amount of their car including 25% of the total amount for the fuel, making it a 
total repayment amount of 125%.
1.7 When the customer successfully pays the first premium of 125% within 30 
days, they qualify for a discount of 6,25% for the 2nd purchase.
1.8 The 6,25% reduction amount can only apply 30 days after the successful 
payment of the 1st purchase
1.9 The 6,25% discount will apply 12 times until the user pays only 25% of the total 
amount for their fuel within a period less or equal to a year.
1.10 The reduced amount (less than the their fulltank price) that the customer pays 
will only be visible after four (4) purchases and four (4) months of consistently 
using the service.
1.11 After a year, the process begins again, and all the benefits are reset, but start 
again with a reduction of 5% from the original 25% and the 5% reduction
1.12 The 5% reduction will continue for each subsequent year until a customer 
reaches a point where they only pay a stable amount, 25% of the total amount 
of their fulltank for their lifetime. 
1.13 The services are not affected by a customer changing a car or fuel increases, 
our percentage rates will remain the same, but repayments will be consistent 
with the fuel price at the time of fuel purchase 

4. FUEL BENEFITS FOR NON-CONSISTENT CUSTOMERS

1.14 Some customers will not consistently use the service, and the result of the 
inconsistency will not prevent them from benefiting from the service, rather 
their discounts will be a bit slower
1.15 If a customer use the service more than four times per year but less than 12 
times, the customer will get a discount of 2,5% in year 2 of their subscription, 
translating into 122,5% repayment for the first month of their year 2
1.16 The 2,5% discount can remain the same or reduced in case of slow utilization 
of the service or can be upgraded to 5% whenever the customer becomes 
consistent with the service
1.17 If a customer uses the service less than three (3) times per year, the customer 
will get a discount of 1% in year 2 of their subscription, translating into 124% 
repayment for the first month of their year 2, 
1.18 The 1% discount may remain the same or it can be upgraded to 2,5% or 5% 
depending on the adjustment of the customer regarding the service

5. PAYMENT OPTION

1.19 Payments of customers will be collected through a debit order or google 
payment or any other form of electronic payment
1.20 The group leader must lead the process of finding an appropriate payment API

6. STRUCTURE OF THE APPLICATION

1.21 Your application can use colours and themes of your choice
1.22 Logically divide your work into a front-end and a backend - Front-end 
development focuses on the user interface (what the user sees and interacts 
with), while back-end development handles the server-side logic, database, 
and overall functionality of the application. Java is a strong programming 
language in dealing with the back-end
1.23 The project will require your prior knowledge of all Java design strategies such 
as the object-oriented programming, control structures, arrays and unified 
modelling language (UML) and the ability to gather requirements (Functional 
requirements define what the app should do, while non-functional 
requirements define how the app should perform.)
1.24 The project will also require your knowledge in multimedia, programming, 
communications and business studies, knowledge which was acquired in the
1
st year and 2nd year semester 1
1.25 Breakdown your work into the following:
a. Registration, username and password interface as shown in the 
example below – PAGE 1
b. User registration of personal details as shown in the example below: -
PAGE 2
c. Car details as shown in the example below: - PAGE 3
d. Payment summary – PAGE 4
e. Application Programming Interface – PAGE 
